The aim of this experiment is to find the dependence of a potential difference across a resistor and the current flowing through it. We will also plot a graph and find the value of resistance of the resistor. The materials required for this experiment are... ..a battery eliminator... a milli ammeter to measure the current, a voltmeter to measure the voltage flowing across the resistor, a real stat which will provide the variable resistance, copper wire for connections, and nicrome wire which will behave as the resistor. We are going to find the least count and zero error of the ammeter and voltmeter. Let us start with the ammeter. In this ammeter, the reading can be taken in milli ampere and the range of this ammeter is from 0 to 100. Now, coming to the least count, between 0 to 20, there are 10 divisions. So, we will divide the total, that is 20 divided by the 10 divisions. That is, the minimum value that you can find from this particular ammeter. It is two milli amps. Similarly, you can do the calculations for voltmeter. For this voltmeter, the range is from 0 to 5 volts. between 0 to 1 there are again 10 divisions. So 1 divided by the total number of divisions that is, 10 it is 0.1. So the least count of this voltmeter is 0.1 volts. Now let us perform the experiment. Here we have connected the positive side of the battery to the positive side of the emitter to make sure that it is in the series of the battery as well as the resistance. The negative side of their meter is connected to the positive side of the voltmeter and the resistance wire. Here we have taken the nickel wire. The negative side of the voltmeter is connected to a rheostat. It is a variable rheostat which is an electrical instrument used to control a current by varying the resistance. The connecting point from the real stat is connected to the negative side of the battery. Let us switch on the battery. It is kept at 4V. Note down the reading on the emitter for the current flowing. Then note down the voltmeter reading. By sliding the Eustat, note down the 2nd reading of the Emeter and the Volt meter. Note down the observations in the observation table. You will see that the Emeter and Volt meter readings are directly proportional to each other. We will use the Ohm's Law here, that is, we = IR and find out the values for R. Then, we will plot a graph. On the graph, you can observe that the resistance can be calculated by the slope of the graph, which is passing through the origin. It is a straight line. This shows that V is directly proportional to I. The graph that shows that voltage is directly proportional to current for a fixed temperature. (upbeat music)